Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to build out a countdown timer to a selected date by the user.
So first thing that we need to do is we need to create an input for the user to be able to select the
date we're going to use type date.
This is each symbol 5 and this is going to give us that little pop up window where we can grab the date
and I want to fire off a function whenever the user makes their selection.
So for this we can use on change.
So this will give us the ability to fire off the start function whenever that date changes.
So let's open up our javascript go into the javascript and create a function and we're going to call
this one start.
So this is going to initiate our start time our start countdown timer.
So we need to do a few things where we need to actually grab this current value and actually place it
within our countdown.
So we need to build out a date.
We need to take the date from now.
We need to create an update to the event and then we need to create our countdown timer that's going
to loop and constantly update the values counting down to our eventual date.
So let's set some of those parameters.
So some of the parameters that we need to set We need the current date so that will be
that will be our See date.
The other thing that we need to set is we need an event date.
So this is when the event is going to get fired off.
And also I want to output
these values in seconds I want minutes hours and days so that we can properly output that within our
HD am also going to set up some default variables.
We're just initiating those default variables and now we can make use of the within our start function.
So go ahead and pause the video and add in the current date into see date and add in the date into the
date variables and set those up within start.
So I hope you had an opportunity to try that out.
And we know from our date input that we're getting the start date.
So this is the date that we want the countdown to go until.
So that will already be passed there and that gets passed within the event object.
And the other one the current date we can pull back and we can just set up a date object.
So basically we're setting up two different date objects we're doing each date and see date and date
is going to be new date and we need to set a value within there.
So let's just do that right now.
And I can actually set a different variable for now and we can also we could always just simply put
that whole statement within the date.
So what we want to do is we want to set the A call it till date.
So this is the date that we're actually going to be going to.
So let's do that target.
So we're getting that event target from this particular input because this is the one that changed triggered
the event.
So we can grab out the value and we have an option actually where we can grab the value as date.
So that will grab it as long formatted date.
And this is also more useful when we're pulling it into our our javascript instead of just having it
as just a regular string value.
So now we know that this is a date.
And now let's actually it looks like this wrote in message in age to M-L so that we can take a closer
look at what is being held with antedate.
So let's go back out and refresh it and we can try our data objects so we can select a date and there
we go so we can see that we're passing that value through.
We're able to pick up that value and this whatever we're selecting here we're actually outputting up
here on the top.
So we're able to make use of that input field and pick up the date within javascript in a usable format.
So now we know that we need to just set this value and we can simply deposited in here and now e date
is going to be equivalent to whatever date was past him.
So now we're ready to go and we've got it formatted as a Date object.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to have a timeout counter.
And this one I also want to have as a global variable.
So this is a timer so I'm going to just use tief for that and we're going to set within the variable
t.
And this is a Windows object where we're going to set in we're going to set timeout actually.
So Interpol executes the code snippet repeatedly and we can also set timeout.
And the reason that we're going to use timeout is so that basically we have the ability to constantly
launch that code anyway within timeout.
So we're going to set it as timeout and then within the function itself we're going to continue to launch
out the same functionality.
So we're going to just call it within itself.
And we saw earlier one of the earlier lessons that that's another way to constantly run the same function
over and over again.
And this is actually going to give us an opportunity that we don't have to clear the timer.
We can within that one function we can simply stop it.
Once we reach our goal.
So now we've got our set timeout is set there and the next thing that we need to do is we need to just
specify the function that we want to run.
And then we are going to track it every second.
So basically we want this update to occur every second.
So let's go ahead and save that.
And next we need to create a function called update
within this update function.
So this is where everything is going to happen and we're going to actually get a brain you time for
the date.
So we're going to constantly get a brain you see date.
So this is going to constantly be changing.
So we're gonna always look at the system time and see what the brand new date is.
And then at the bottom here we're going to do that same time out here at the bottom.
So basically what's going to happen is this will give us the ability to constantly update that time
and will continue to run those functions as every second once that's been initiated within the set time
and or start.
So next what I want to do is I want to output it within the output value here.
So let's create some space for that.
And then within here we're going to make our calculations and we're going to output how many minutes
or how many seconds are left and we're going to create the number starting by the seconds.
So let's set the number of seconds and we know that we're tracking vs seconds.
So let's make our calculation and this time we need to subtract
from the date we need to subtract the current date.
And this is actually going to give us the number of seconds that are that are left
and it's actually going to give us the milliseconds.
So if we want the seconds we've got to divide by a thousand and I'm going to take this value over here.
And next we need to simply update our our output.
So I'm going to create a function in order to update that output.
So I want to be able to simply update the output and output it properly within that format.
So now let's set that up and we'll do function and output update.
We don't have to pass any parameters for this because these are global variables that we're working
with.
So we can always pick up these global variables as needed.
So now it's we need to make an update to that output so we can place that output within an object.
So let's do that.
So document get element by id and let's add an output.
So that way we could just simply access it by typing output.
So output for each team.
So we'll leave it up to him.
Of course we could do text as well.
So we're going to do seconds.
So let's try this out and refreshed and just make sure that everything is working properly.
So we should have to wait.
We we didn't actually add in that update function so that was what was missing there.
So we need to add that in over there and over here.
And once I do that then we can actually update that output.
So go back out or refresh it and let's try that again.
So now we see how many seconds are actually left and we see that it's counting down.
We see that we've got a decimal place there within seconds.
So that is also something that we know that we need to round that in order before we actually output
it.
So now that we actually know how many seconds we can do all of the rest of the calculation really easily
and we can also even bring this one into here because we're duplicating our work here.
So we don't actually need to have that in two places.
We can have it within that one function and there's also another thing that we're also duplicating and
that's the current date.
So let's add that in as well so that we don't have to constantly duplicate some of our work.
And that's the current state over there.
So as long as we're calling to output update we're getting all of the functionality.
So no we know that we're pulling out number of seconds and now we need to do some calculations with
this value.
So let's open that up and we know that.
Let's set up a duration here so do you are.
And this will help with the calculation.
So basically we're going to take the event date and subtract the current date and let's set up seconds
so we know that this way we're actually getting the duration there that we're looking for that's still
available.
So seconds actually needs to be the formula for this.
Let's do a math floor so we can bring the number down to zero so we don't have all those decimal places
and then within a math floor we need to make some calculations.
So let me grab that.
And I only want to display the number of seconds.
So I don't want to display the total number of seconds.
So we need to do some additional calculations as well.
And then we're going to simply divide it by a thousand.
So we know that we have to duration
and let's do modulus.
So what's the remainder and the remainder of what's left when we do sixty thousand milliseconds.
And basically the 60000 milliseconds is going to represent the amount of milliseconds before we actually
hit the next level.
So no we've got 1000 milliseconds within each second.
So that's what we need to do 60000 because we have guys got 60000 milliseconds or 60 seconds before
we hit the next level or the next tier up.
So let's do duration and we can also to simplify it we can do 1000 times 60.
So that's the amount of seconds till the next level up.
And what we're going to do is we're going to take this and we're going to get the modulus of this value
and then simply return that value.
So let's see what this looks like.
So go ahead and see that.
And then we know that we can apply that same format to the other ones.
So we've got 2 1 0.
Now it's 59.
So this is exactly what we want and we know that this is account for the seconds.
So let's do the same thing for minutes
so we can copy this out and the minutes is going to be slightly different.
So minutes.
So update that to em and minutes.
We know that it's 60000 times another 60 to get to the next tier.
And instead of dividing by 1000 We know that we're dividing by the 60000.
So whatever would have been in that tier before that.
This is the number that we need to divide the pie so that that way we're actually getting that total
that we need in order to output that value.
So just do a double check just to make sure that we've got all of the brackets and everything is properly
in place.
And I believe we're missing one more bracket at the end.
And now let's try to get the minutes out so we'll do.
And plus and we'll just do the coal in there.
So now let's refresh the code and we'll try to say one more time.
So now we know that we've got 29 minutes and whatever amount of seconds 23 22 and so on.
So now we can apply the same thing to the hours and to the days.
So using the same format plus the video and add in the value for hours and also add in the value for
days and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So let's go ahead and we're going to copy out this string and we know we need to use that same type
of format.
So opt to get to the next level we need to add in 24 because that's going to be the next breaking point.
And that's where we get 24 hours in a day.
And also the division as well has to increment by 60.
And then lastly we know that the days.
So this is the final one and we know that we've got the duration and we can actually for this one we
can simply divide and we don't actually need the rest of the stuff here so we can simply divide by the
duration and we can get rid of the other bracket there.
So basically we've got days and I'm just going to copy this.
So to break that apart.
So we've got our days.
We've got ours.
We've got minutes and we've got seconds so let's go ahead and try that out.
So select a date and we see that there is one day there's 21 hours 27 minutes and 38 seconds.
Let's try something further down in the calendar so you know we've got 171 days 21 hours 27 minutes
29 seconds.
Oh so this is all worked out done via javascript.
So there's one other thing that I wanted to add in as well.
And we know that if the value of the minutes is less than 10 that we need to add in a zero into that.
So let's update that.
And also for the seconds as well.
So let's add seconds and we're going to equal that to and we're going to do a terrine every operator
so we're going to check to see if seconds is less than 10.
And if it is then we're going to simply add the zero.
So concatenate the 0 to the value of seconds.
Otherwise we're just going to output the value of seconds.
So go ahead pause the video and do the same one four minutes and let me show you let's refresh thought
and let's pick a time period.
So now we need to actually wait till we get down to less than the two jets in order to tell if it works.
But in the meantime you can pause the video and see if the minutes update it within that same format
for minutes and it's going to be the same thing except we're going to change the variables.
So now it's minutes and if Minutes is and see there we go we've got the zero in place there.
So if Minutes is less than 10 then we're going to concatenate the 0 to the minutes allowing us to output
that within
a more readable format.
So we're not going to the single digits at any point within our output.
So go ahead and try it out for yourself and just get that output depending on the date that's selected
and you can also enter in a static date and do a count down.
So set up the same script and do the countdown.
So when the page loads countdown to your birthday and add that into the script.